Add Soft 6 article (#6772)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Tournaments/SOFT/6/en.md

---
tags:
  - SOFT6
  - SOFT 6
---

# Springtime osu!mania Free-for-all Tournament 6

![SOFT6 logo](img/logo.jpg)

> We actually thought this was impossible...

The **Springtime osu!mania Free-for-all Tournament 6** (***SOFT 6***) is a 1v1 country-independent osu!mania 4-key tournament.

## Tournament schedule

| Event | Timestamp |
| --: | :-- |
| Registration phase | 2022-01-29/2022-02-11 (23:59 UTC) |
| Qualifiers showcase | 2022-02-19 (16:00 UTC) |
| Qualifiers | 2022-03-05/2022-03-06 |
| Playoffs week 1 | 2022-03-12/2022-03-13 |
| Playoffs week 2 | 2022-03-19/2022-03-20 |
| Group stage week 1 | 2022-03-26/2022-03-27 |
| Group stage week 2 | 2022-04-02/2022-04-03 |
| Round of 32 | 2022-04-09/2022-04-10 |
| Round of 16 | 2022-04-16/2022-04-17 |
| Quarterfinals |  2022-04-23/2022-04-24 |
| Semifinals | 2022-04-30/2022-05-01 |

> | Finals Week 1 | 2022-05-07/2022-05-08 |
> | Finals Week 2/Grand Finals | 2022-05-14/2022-05-15 |
> 

Reviewer: is it the case that the grand finals week overlaps with the finals before? if not then:

```suggestion
| Finals | 2022-05-07/2022-05-08 |
| Grand Finals | 2022-05-14/2022-05-15 |
```

otherwise

```suggestion
| Finals week 1 | 2022-05-07/2022-05-08 |
| Finals week 2 / Grand Finals | 2022-05-14/2022-05-15 |
```

## Prizes

> The Springtime Osu!mania Free-for-all Tournament 6 will offer a $250 minimum cash prize pool!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Springtime osu!mania Free-for-all Tournament 6 will offer a $250 minimum cash prize pool!
```

- In a winners bracket match, the player who meets the winning condition in a match will be declared the winner of the match and will move further into the bracket. The loser of the match will fall into the losers bracket.
- In a losers bracket match, the player who meets the winning condition in a match will be declared the winner of the match and will move further into the bracket. The loser of the match will be eliminated from the tournament.
- Players who are in the winners bracket are required to play in one match in each stage. The only exception to this is if the player is the sole player in winner bracket in the Grand Finals stage, where the player is required to play in up to two matches if the player were to lose their first match in the Grand Finals stage.
- Players who are in the losers bracket at the start of the Quarterfinals or further are required to play in two matches in a single stage. However, players who lose their first match in the losers bracket in those stages will no longer need to play in any further matches, for they are eliminated from the tournament.

### Tournament play

#### Protocol

> - Overlaps between matches may happen in certain stages; as a result, streaming every match is not viable. Tournament staff will do their best to give every player in the tourney some stream time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Overlaps between matches may happen in certain stages. As a result, streaming every match is not viable. Tournament staff will do their best to give every player in the tourney some stream time.
```

  - Rooms with matches will be created before the match start time, and you will be invited to the corresponding tournament room before the match start time.
  - For maximal accountability on the SOFT6 staff, each match will have a primary referee and a backup referee. That way, you will be assured that someone will be present to handle your tournament match.
  - If both players arrive on time, tournament proceedings will begin promptly at the start time of the match, **no earlier and no later.**
  - If your match starts in less than five (5) minutes and you have not been invited to your corresponding multiplayer room, notify any Tournament Staff member who is online on Discord or in-game that you are a player in SOFT6 and you currently do not have an invitation to your match. They will alleviate the situation by notifying the designated referees for your match to give you an invitation to your corresponding multiplayer room.
- ***It is our right as tournament staff to expect that you will arrive for your matches before your expected time.***

>   - Players will be given a grace period of ten (10) minutes after the match start time to enter their room; if they have not entered by this point, the match will be forfeited and the player that has arrived will win by default. However, exceptions will be given to players who were late due to technical issues/staff impropriety.

Reviewer: semicolons are best used sparingly, and removed when not needed.

```suggestion
  - Players will be given a grace period of ten (10) minutes after the match start time to enter their room. If they have not entered by this point, the match will be forfeited and the player that has arrived will win by default. However, exceptions will be given to players who were late due to technical issues/staff impropriety.
```

    - **Players who enter the room during the grace period cannot select a warm-up for the match.**

>   - In the extreme circumstance where both players do not show, **the player with the higher group stage seed in the match-up will advance automatically.** During Playoff Stage, **the player with the higher qualifier seed in the match-up will advance automatically.**

Reviewer: to clarify, the period is included if the whole sentence is bolded/italicised, but not if it's only part of a sentence. it's a style thing and not very noticeable in this case but good to keep in mind. (note that the same thing applies for parentheses and links for example.)

```suggestion
  - In the extreme circumstance where both players do not show, **the player with the higher group stage seed in the match-up will advance automatically**. During Playoff Stage, **the player with the higher qualifier seed in the match-up will advance automatically**.
```

- ***It is your privilege as a player and tournament entrant to have an opinion about the content/structure used in the tournament.***
  - You are experiencing this event as a competitor and every choice made in the process directly affects how you will progress in the tournament.
  - If you dislike something, you are allowed to state your concerns. However, do so reasonably. Keep in mind that some of your fellow competitors and other users on this website have content that will inevitably be used in the tournament, and it is best advised that you make it clear that it is your opinion so as to not be hurtful.
- ***It is our right as the SOFT6 staff to reprimand users for intolerable behaviour.***

>   - SOFT6 staff will have sole discretion over decisions that affect a player's standing in the tournament. However, other members of the tournament may forward any information to staff members that in any way represents uncalled for behaviour towards other users or staff. Staff members will attempt to escalate serious situations beyond the scope of this event if need be, so please be respectful to other users and staff.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - SOFT6 staff will have sole discretion over decisions that affect a player's standing in the tournament. However, other members of the tournament may forward any information to staff members that in any way represents uncalled-for behaviour towards other users or staff. Staff members will attempt to escalate serious situations beyond the scope of this event if need be, so please be respectful to other users and staff.
```

---
tags:
  - SOFT6
  - SOFT 6
---

# Springtime osu!mania Free-for-all Tournament 6

![SOFT6 logo](img/logo.jpg)

> > We actually thought this was impossible...

Author: The previous SOFT tournaments all have quotes on the wiki pages, so we kept it in as a running gag.

    - **Players who enter the room during the grace period cannot select a warm-up for the match.**
  - In the extreme circumstance where both players do not show, **the player with the higher group stage seed in the match-up will advance automatically**. In Playoff Stage, **the player with the higher qualifier seed in the match-up will advance automatically**.
- ***It is your privilege as a player and tournament entrant to have an opinion about the content/structure used in the tournament***.
  - You are experiencing this event as a competitor and every choice made in the process directly affects how you will progress in the tournament.
  - If you dislike something, you are allowed to state your concerns -- however, do so reasonably. Keep in mind that some of your fellow competitors and other users on this website have content that will inevitably be used in the tournament, and it is best advised that you make it clear that it is your opinion so as to not be hurtful.
- ***It is our right as the SOFT6 staff to reprimand users for intolerable behaviour***.

>   - SOFT6 staff will have sole discretion over decisions that affect a player's standing in the tournament; however, other members of the tournament may forward any information to staff members that in any way represents uncalled for behaviour towards other users or staff. Staff members will attempt to escalate serious situations beyond the scope of this event if need be, so be respectful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - SOFT6 staff will have sole discretion over decisions that affect a player's standing in the tournament. However, other members of the tournament may forward any information to staff members that in any way represents uncalled for behaviour towards other users or staff. Staff members will attempt to escalate serious situations beyond the scope of this event if need be, so be respectful when reporting.
```

  - Minor instances will receive warnings, and continued instances will result in forceful removal from the tournament.

#### Warm-up songs

> - Each player in the match will be allowed one (1) warm-up song to be played, making for two (2) warm-ups in total between both players. All warm-up songs must be osu!mania 4K specific beatmaps.

Reviewer: yes

```suggestion
- Each player in the match will be allowed one (1) warm-up song to be played. All warm-up songs must be osu!mania 4K specific beatmaps.
```

> - The warm-up must be uploaded to the osu! website and accessible by everyone prior to the tournament match. Bloodcat links are **not allowed**, and neither are personal links featuring the beatmap that you want downloaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The warm-up must be uploaded to the osu! website and accessible by everyone prior to the tournament match. Links to beatmap mirrors or other file hosts are **not allowed**.
```

- Maps that have a beatmap listing but cannot be downloaded are not allowed for the purpose of warming up. If a map takes too long to download, the referee may decide to skip the warm-up instead.
- Before Bracket Stage, player warm-up songs cannot exceed a drain time of three (3) minutes. During Bracket Stage, player warmup songs cannot exceed a drain time of four (4) minutes.

> - Warm-up songs will be on FreeMod, which allows for any special modifications that players see fit for the purpose of warming up properly. If agreed upon by both players, warm-up songs can be played on DT or HT so long as their drain time does not exceed the corresponding limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Warm-up songs will be on FreeMod, which allows for any special modifications that players see fit for the purpose of warming up properly. If agreed upon by both players, warm-up songs can be played with DT or HT so long as their drain time does not exceed the corresponding limits.
```

- With the exception of warm-ups, all songs played in a given round must match those that are selectable in the corresponding mappool. Maps are to be played on a restrictive FreeMod: only Mirror, Hidden, Fade In, Flashlight and NoFail can be used.
- Players are to protect one (1) map from being banned within the mappool that they are playing for the given round.
- Players are to ban one (1) map within the mappool that they are playing for the given round.
- Players will be instructed to do a `!roll` command by the referee that is overseeing the match. The player with the winning roll decides whether they want to protect, ban and pick first, or whether they want to protect, ban and pick second.
- After the protects, bans, and rolls have concluded, the player with first pick instructs the referee of their song selection, and the referee will switch to that song. After that song concludes, the other player will pick a song, and this process will continue until one of the two conditions is satisfied:
  1. One player has achieved enough wins in such a way that the other player cannot successfully win the round.
     - The winning player moves onto the next match.

>      - The losing player falls to the losers bracket. If the losing player loses while in the loser’s bracket, they are eliminated from the tournament.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - The losing player falls to the losers bracket. If the losing player loses while in the loser's bracket, they are eliminated from the tournament.
```
